OSDOCS-17013-bm-upi-2: Continuation of the CQA2 for installing-bare-m… (#103912)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-user-infra-machines-advanced-retain-disk.adoc

[role="_abstract"]
For an ISO installation, you can add options to the `coreos-installer` command that causes the installation program to maintain one or more existing partitions. For a PXE installation, you can add `coreos.inst.*` options to the `APPEND` parameter to preserve partitions.

Saved partitions might be data partitions from an existing {product-title} system. You can identify the disk partitions you want to keep either by partition label or by number.

[NOTE]
====
If you save existing partitions, and those partitions do not leave enough space for {op-system}, the installation will fail without damaging the saved partitions.
====

The following examples preserves any existing partition during an ISP installation in which the partition label begins with `data` (`data*`):

ifndef::restricted[]
[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
--save-partlabel 'data*' \
/dev/disk/by-id/scsi-<serial_number>
----
endif::[]

ifdef::restricted[]
[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
--save-partlabel 'data*' \
--offline \
/dev/disk/by-id/scsi-<serial_number>
----
endif::[]

> The following example illustrates running the `coreos-installer` in a way that preserves

Reviewer: Avoid newline as well.

```suggestion
The following example runs the `coreos-installer` in a way that preserves
```

the sixth (6) partition on the disk:

ifndef::restricted[]
[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
--save-partindex 6 /dev/disk/by-id/scsi-<serial_number>
----
endif::[]

ifdef::restricted[]
[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
--save-partindex 6 \
--offline \
/dev/disk/by-id/scsi-<serial_number>
----
endif::[]

This example preserves partitions 5 and higher:

ifndef::restricted[]
[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
--save-partindex 5- /dev/disk/by-id/scsi-<serial_number>
----
endif::[]

ifdef::restricted[]
[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
--save-partindex 5- \
--offline \
/dev/disk/by-id/scsi-<serial_number>
----
endif::[]

In the earlier examples where partition saving is used, `coreos-installer` recreates the partition immediately.

> The following examples preserves existign partitions during a PXE installation. Note that the `APPEND` option preserves any partition in which the partition label begins with 'data' ('data*'):

Reviewer: `Note that the `APPEND` option preserves any partition in which the partition label begins with 'data' ('data*'):`
Needs to be an admonition.

====

For PXE installations, you pass the Ignition configs on the `APPEND` line using the `coreos.inst.ignition_url=` option. For ISO installations, after the ISO boots to the shell prompt, you identify the Ignition config on the `coreos-installer` command line with the `--ignition-url=` option. In both cases, only HTTP and HTTPS protocols are supported.

* **Live install Ignition config**: This type can be created by using the `coreos-installer` `customize` subcommand and its various options. With this method, the Ignition config passes to the live install medium, runs immediately upon booting, and performs setup tasks before or after the {op-system} system installs to disk. This method should only be used for performing tasks that must be done once and not applied again later, such as with advanced partitioning that cannot be done using a machine config.

For PXE or ISO boots, you can create the Ignition config and `APPEND` the `ignition.config.url=` option to identify the location of the Ignition config. You also need to append `ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal`

> or the `ignition.config.url` option will be ignored.

Reviewer: isn't this already a part of an earlier reference module?
